# task-4
In this task the firewall was set up and the execution of firewall was observed on a windows based OS. The inbound rules of the firewall were changed in order to see it's functioning. The importance of the firewall setup in a system can be understood in this exercise.
Here, the firewall was configured and tested to see it's role in blocking or allowing the traffic.
The firewall in the windows also called as windows defender firewall, is first opened as GUI. As it opens the interface shows three divided panels. One for the type of rules (like inbound, outboundetc.), second for displaying the selected category of rules, the last one having options to configure or search the rules list.
The inbound rules are nothing but the rules made for the inbound traffic i.e., the traffic that comes from an external source into the system through various ports, domains etc. The outbound rules are nothing but the rules made for the outbound traffic i.e., the traffic that goes to an external source from the system through various ports, domains etc.
The inbound rules when configured can perform action according the changed or the added rule. Controlling the inbound traffic is very necessary to prevent any kind of attack or access on our system by an external source.
The ports like 23-telnet, 3398-RDP port etc are few such ports that are most vulnerable and are more susceptible to external access. Thus, in this exercise the rules are configured such that they work against the entry of any external source into one of these ports. The port selected for this exercise is 3398 (RDP PORT). RDP port is Remote desktop protocol, that works with TCP protocol and sometimes with UDP protocol. This allows logging into the windows computer from an external source or another machine (with a graphical desktop).
On the right most panel, the option 'new rule' was selected and the crendentials were filled as required and was named as RDP PORT. The permission is selected as 'BLOCK', so that there no network traffic allowed from the port, thus, denying the access of external machine into our system.
This configuration was checked by accessing through powershell and another machine linux. In the powershell the code- 'Test-NetConnection -ComputerName localhost -Port3398'. The result was given as test succeeded- False. 
In another machine(linux)- 'nc -vz <windowsIP> 3389' code was entered and the result was displayed as access denied. This indicates that the system is not allowing any external machine to access 3398 port. In this way, the firewall protects the system by blocking or allowing the network traffic.
Now, the rule that is created is deleted and again the command 'Remove-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName RDP PORT' is entered in the powershell. The result displayed that such rule does not exist, indicating that the rule is deleted. 
Thus, the firewall is configured and the traffic for the taken exemplar port traffic 3398 was blocked successfully. 
